the real rate of inflation is more
difficult to calculate than what it
seems the Fed even has trouble doing it
they keep dropping things off of it I
guess it's just easier that way
just leave off the most important
factors and you won't have much to count
and keep a tally of what a brilliant
plan
well you came here for the truth so let
me unveil that for you today we're going
to look at inflation there are different
ways to look at inflation let's get into
those right now beginning with this the
CPI Consumer Price Index often seen as
the measure of inflation when you talk
about inflation rates you're looking at
the CPI now while I don't agree with the
CPI that's what it is
this is what the raise that you haven't
been getting year-over-year is measured
upon it's the 40-year trend line of the
CPI being remarkably stable so you could
see that year-over-year this has been
going up and that's in line with your
food with your energy with everything
that's important as far as I'm concerned
and they rise your rear your wages so if
this is the CPI and your wages are like
this so as time goes on more of a chasm
forms in between these two you're not
allowed to talk about that because as
soon as you hit the nail on the head the
warning signs start going off and people
start getting upset that's just the way
it is it's very clear but it's not a
silly notion okay look at this personal
consumption expenditures PCE is the
Federal Reserve's favorite measure of
core inflation okay I remember I said
core inflation
ever you see the Federal Reserve talking
in one of their meetings they're always
talking about inflation rates and
they're referring to core inflation now
if you can get rid of food and energy
prices from your ridiculous calculations
you end up with some of this garbage
there's no way that this makes any sense
we're going to calculate inflation but
we're not going to include the two most
important things it's just ridiculous it
is absolutely ridiculous to see
something like this I don't care what
direction it heads if you're not going
to include those
it's simply irrelevant it's irrelevant
okay but that's what the market goes by
so when they say oh we need to get to
two percent inflation that's our goal
etc they're talking about core inflation
and it's fake now we could look at more
accurate statistics consumer inflation
official versus shadow stats 1980 based
so this is 1990 and as a 1980 base but
we'll look at the 1980 and what you can
see that today approximately at 10% now
for each individual this number may vary
it may not be 10% it might be 5% it
might be 7% it depends on what you buy
how many people are in your family and
where you live and there's so many
factors which determine your rate of
inflation that you're experiencing
however the rate that they're giving us
not true it is just not true I don't
know of anybody who can say that their
food energy rent housing everything is
going down or barely staying at the same
level it doesn't happen too often and if
it does it seems to be for short periods
of time historically speaking so what we
need to understand
is that inflation is getting worse why
because the true measure of inflation
that is how many dollars are printed
expansion of the currency supply is on
its way up and as a result you see
prices rising nominally switching gears
healthcare spending has grown much
faster than the rest of the economy in
recent decades look at this
818 percent Obamacare is destroying
absolutely destroying what's going on
with people's finances but of course it
makes the GDP rise so you can throw the
GDP in here looking at this yes it's
only 168 percent
but part of that GDP is the expenditures
on things like Obamacare and they've
been rising and rising so surely that's
going to contribute to the GDP if that
wasn't the case you would see it down
further look at wages embarrassingly
barely moving upward and then get the
real economy versus the asset prices and
I've covered this before just wanted to
quickly mention it for those who haven't
seen this you can see the different
stock markets around the world
everything is up up up at the same time
you have you have the real economy
basically nowhere to be found in
comparison and these once again a chasm
for name forming in between the two the
real economy is dead the fake
quantitative easing economy is expanding
and nobody cares if they're invested in
the stock market they won't know when to
sell but that's ok because the party is
on right now if you found this video
informative please give me a thumbs up
if you hated this video give me a thumbs
down have an opinion that's all if you
found the video informative I know you
will find my books the money GPS em and
you released global economic collapse
even more informative you can flip
through these books at Amazon links are
in the description below
take care